I'LL ADMIT THAT THIS ISN'T QUITE WHAT I EXPECTED
I’LL DO MY JOB AND CHASE YOU OFF
BETTER THAN BEING THE TYPE THAT’S A DIME A DOZEN
Oh! Emer! You made it. 
No no, we’ll go on the date when my shift’s over. I’m at work. This is Culann the Smith’s house. 
Ugh, you heard that? 
CULANN THE SMITH USED TO HAVE A REAL GUARD DOG
That’s a yes? 
The king’s fortress. Come on, let’s go! 
Who cares? Do you know how exciting it is for a girl to not be scared away? 
It’s way more crowded than I thought it’d be. What gives?
That may be a risk I’m willing to take. 
I DON’T WANT TO DIE WHILE PEOPLE THINK OF ME HOW THEY DO NOW
NOW THAT SURE SOUNDS LIKE ME! 
I LIKE THE SOUND OF THAT, A LEGENDARY HERO
I DON’T WANT TO BE THE KIND OF PERSON THAT’S A DIME A DOZEN
AND THEN I’LL BE A LEGEND ONE DAY
Yeah, of course. Plus they’ve always bugged me about just settling down already. I think the longer I court you, the more mad they get that I haven’t married you yet. 
Yes, actually. Good guess. 
Leave her alone. She’s not interested. 
Wow. You actually- How? Why? 
I don’t know if you understand how amazing that was. Usually when I turn into a monster my rampage doesn’t stop until I pass out from using so much energy. I’ve never just calmed down enough to snap out of it before. No one’s tried to make that happen before. Everyone just hides. And I can’t blame them. I didn’t expect you to do that. 
I’m serious, Emer. I think you’re my soulmate. I want to marry you. 
Your dad? 
Okay, and? That’s not going to stop me. I’ll never find another girl like you. I’ve been searching for you my whole life. And now I’m already starting to make plans in my head for our future. 
Sir, I’ve come here to ask for your blessing to- 
It doesn’t even impress you that my dad is a literal deity? 
Have you ever approved of your daughter’s choice in lovers? If it’s not me, who will be enough for you? You have to let her live her life. 
WITH ALL DUE RESPECT, SIR, I HAVE TO DISAGREE
Why? 
I’ll do it! I’ll face any challenge! What do you need from me? 
Just tell me what it is! 
ALRIGHT! 
IT WON’T TAKE LONG
I WON’T WASTE A MOMENT I COULD SPEND EARNING YOUR TRUST
I PROMISE I’LL BE BACK BEFORE YOU EVEN KNOW I’M GONE
SOON WE’LL ALL FIND OUT EXACTLY WHAT I’M WORTHY OF
If it means we can have a future together, we can bear a little time apart. 
Sounds like an upgrade to me. Emer, you will see me again very soon. That’s a promise. We’ll stay in touch through letters in the meantime. Trust me, it’ll be worth it in the end. 
Uh, hi. That looks fun, mind if I join? 
Yes! My name is Setanta. But I’m better known as Cu Chulainn. I’m kind of a local celebrity where I come from. I don’t know if anyone here has heard of me. 
Hopefully that’ll change one day. It’s my destiny to be a war hero. My death will be legendary! 
Huh? 
But that’s the thing, it’d only be cool if I do make a big contribution, like winning the battle after all seems lost with an epic sacrifice! 
Well, yeah, but- 
I’m the best hurling player in all of Ireland. 
Okay, well, I took up arms several months ago because a prophecy told me to. But mostly when I have to fight, I let my magical side do the work. And it does the job really well, often too well, and I can’t control it. Which hasn’t earned me the best reputation. That’s why I’m here. 
Yeah! 
Hey, thanks. You are? 
Ready. 
Thanks, dude. At least someone does. It didn’t seem like Scathach was all that impressed. 
And you’re not worried about that? 
So this is what you guys do during your breaks? 
Oh boy, I don’t know which one to pick.  
Do I? Where do you think my overpowered magic side comes from? My father is Lugh- a god, and a revered hero among the gods at that. Here’s what he told me when I was a child. 
Long ago, before the Gaels came to Ireland, the monstrous Fomorii and mystical Tuatha De Danann were at war. My dad was the grandson of Balor of the Evil Eye, the monsters’ leader, but he chose to be a champion of his enemies instead. But his own side locked him up because they thought he was too important to die. So he escaped and won the battle by knocking Balor’s eye out with a slingshot. And as it rolled away, it killed Balor’s own army! 
So yeah, that’s my favorite story. Ever since I heard it, I’ve wanted to be a hero just as brave and beloved as him. 
What about you? What stories did you tell before I got here? 
Wait, wait. The ruler of your kingdom and the ruler of my kingdom are bitter exes. 
What if our kingdoms go to war one day? 
I have a destiny, you know. And I want you to be part of it. 
Loser of the next spar has to defect?
That’s so sweet. I’m so lucky to have her. I need to write a reply to my one true love across the sea. 
I’m just about to go send this letter to my girlfriend. 
What about it? 
Yes I do. I’m going to marry her when I get back. I’ve never been more sure of anything in my life. My friends tried to set me up with some girls but she’s the only one I wanted. 
Yeah, why wouldn’t I be?
And you’re sad you’re not in that reality.
Missing out on what exactly?
Know what? 
I’D BE LYING IF I SAID I’M NOT CONSIDERING IT AT ALL
I KNOW HER PRETTY WELL BY NOW
I don’t know. Even if she is okay with it in principle, she’ll probably just say what I’m thinking- Our top priority is getting her father’s blessing for us to marry. We can’t do anything that’ll risk that. And knowing him, I bet he finds a way to read all of our letters. He can’t even know that I was thinking of this. 
She is. 
How am I doing? Am I getting better? 
What? No. We’re best buds. Right bro? 
Does this mean what I think it means? 
And you’re sure I won’t badly injure you while I’m out of control? 
Sorry. 
Alright. Do your worst! I’m ready to prove myself! 
Oh. Shit. Guess that means I failed, huh? 
Thanks. 
Right. Okay, I’m ready to try again! 
Oh, I guess I’ve never had the chance to look at my reflection while transformed. And if I have, I wouldn’t remember. 
Ugh, time to fail again. 
I already am, that’s kind of my whole deal. 
You’re really good at making that sound sincere. 
I’m betting Scathach isn’t. 
Let’s just get this over with. I’m ready to be humiliated again. 
Okay, I’ll try. 
I know, pitifully short. I’m hitting a wall here. You said I just need to practice practice practice, but there’s only so much I can practice something the wrong way. 
Let me think. It’s not just anger, actually. It’s fear. Even when you’re teasing me about silly things, I still know you could kill me if you wanted to. There’s a part of me that’s paranoid you actually hate my guts and I know if that were true I’d be doomed and I guess that risk just activates my fight or flight response. 
And once I’m back out in the real world, there’s still going to be life and death situations where that small part of me is convinced the only way to survive is to let the dark magic protect me. I don’t know what to do. 
I admit I have a bit of an ego, but there are times I wouldn’t take that gamble. Especially knowing my destiny. 
Woah. And you want to give this to me? 
Okay, so, you obviously aren’t going to let me use it during our battles though, right? 
Yeah. You have a point. Yeah, I think I do feel better now. 
Okay, I’m ready to try again if you are. 
Yes ma’am! 
What exactly is going on? 
Scathach, I thought this was your castle. 
But we can help you! You’ll have a better chance of winning if it’s 3 against 1. 
Come on, you can’t just make me sit out a battle on the sidelines when someone I care about is in danger. 
No, I don’t want to be asleep while a really important battle is- 
My monster side is useful after all. That and being a demigod. And just generally awesome. 
Hey! You might not want to be so rude while you’re inches away from a brutal death. 
Regardless of what Scathach thinks about your dignity, I’ve decided that if you continue your evil ways, you’re too dangerous to be allowed to live. How many of my peers have you brutalized? How can I in good conscience risk more of their lives? 
Just a simple request. 
Okay, what if... Scathach, you won’t need this place forever, right? You’ll eventually retire from teaching. 
You should do more with your life before you die. See the world, relax, make new friends. 
Well, what if Scathach takes summers off and you can use it as a vacation home? 
And... 
I want you to hug each other and say you’re sorry. 
I guess that’s a good thing. 
Great! Hey Scathach, what did I tell you? I was helpful after all. And I didn’t go berserk. 
Holy shit! I completed my training! I did what Emer’s father asked me to do in exchange for her hand in marriage! 
Thank you! Can you do that right now? I want to get back as soon as I can. I’ve kept Emer waiting for far too long. I feel terrible. 
I’ll do it. For different reasons though. 
Hey! Hey! The sleeping potion can’t be that strong, can it? 
I intervened in the fight without transforming and I got them to negotiate a truce! I proved myself! I can go home now. 
I completed my mission. 
This has always been my top priority. I came here with a goal and I achieved it. I made a promise to the person I love most in the world. I have to return to her. I can’t spend any more time making her miserable from missing me. 
I’m glad you understand. 
Yeah but I have a new plan now, a plan that works. And a letter from the mentor he sent me to and a legendary, one-of-a-kind, magic spear she gifted me. What else does he need? 
I do. That’s why we’ll fight side by side one day, remember? 
Exactly. 
Thank you, Scathach! For everything. And Ferdiad, we’ll see each other again. I promise. It may happen sooner than you think. 
I’m back! Emer! 
You wouldn’t believe the day I’ve had. I’ll tell you all about it. And then we’ll get married! 
I PROVED MYSELF
What? Sir, you have nothing to fear about me anymore. Scathach whipped sense into me just like you said she would. I have it in her words. 
Then why did you send me to train? 
I’m afraid I won’t be doing that, sir. 
I should warn you that even though now I can avoid transforming if I don’t want to, there can still be times I do want to. 
You’ve made it very clear that we’re beyond the point of trying to salvage your opinion of me. 
Not after I sacrificed so much over a lie! 
So... I guess we’ll elope? 
I’m sorry. 
I wanted to solve this peacefully. 
LET’S RUN AWAY
Your highness, you wanted to speak with me? 
I’ve been waiting to hear those words my whole life. See, everyone? I’m not just Culann’s guard dog. I’m not just my beautiful wife Emer’s guard dog. Now I’m the kingdom of Ulster’s guard dog. 
So she’s invading Ulster just to take a bull. 
Yeah! We have me! 
IS THIS IT? IS IT ACTUALLY TIME? 
I AM YOUR ONE CHANCE
The short life and glorious death? Yeah, this is the kind of ending I’d want. Giving my life as my kingdom’s sole protector. And the longer I last against the army, the more glorious it will be, so I’m sure I’ll hold my own for quite a while. Maybe even win with my sacrifice. 
You married me knowing I’d have a short life. 
I’m sorry, Emer. But we knew we can’t pick the details. Only accept what fate wants to offer. 
Right. 
I’m here. And I’m ready to fight. Emer, please, you have to get to safety so I can protect everyone. 
She’s not usually like this. 
She has a point, though. This doesn’t seem like the kind of conflict that should be settled with a war. 
Because- and forgive me for being rude, but you are the one attacking us- it’s ridiculously petty. 
And what about all your soldiers who have to risk their lives trying to achieve something they probably don’t give a shit about? It’s petty to them. Yet they’re the ones with the most to lose. 
Can I actually convince you if you aren’t worried about saving face in front of the people you rule over? 
And you have just enough empathy not to admit that out loud right in front of them. 
You are awful. 
Listen. 
IS THERE NOTHING I CAN SAY TO MAKE YOU GO AWAY?
NOT EVEN A DELAY? 
That’s not true! 
You are such a narcissist. I’m nothing like you! 
NO! NO! NO! NO!
I get it! There’s no reasoning with you. Whatever, I want to fight too anyway.  
Let’s just get this over with.
Seriously? 
Yeah, who wants to be next! 
Of course I do. 
SO THIS IS WHAT IT’S LIKE TO BE THE STAR OF THE STORY
I’M READY FOR WHAT FATE HAS IN STORE FOR ME
I’LL TAKE WHAT FATE HAS IN STORE
Where am I? Did I die? 
Queen Medb let them take me back to heal? 
Huh. Well, now that I’m awake, I guess I’d better get back to fighting. 
Oh. But I feel... okay. 
I’m fine. I can fight. And we can’t assume Medb’s patience will last forever. Let me get my armor. 
Sorry Emer, I’m just trying to be the hero of our otherwise defenseless kingdom. 
Up until my inescapable destiny, and, well... I didn’t expect it to come so soon either. 
I don’t want to look like a coward. I don’t want people to think I regret accepting my destiny. 
Then don't watch. Just stay off the battlefield like everyone else, okay?  
Dad! Hey! It’s been way too long. Have you come to watch my feats of heroism that will be retold for generations, just like yours? 
What? But we’re gods! 
That makes no sense. 
Hold on for a second, dad! 
Okay. I know what I have to do. I want to be the kind of hero you used to be. And if I’m running out of time, I have to go out and make a good impression while I still can. 
How did my father become such a coward? Is it because you're immortal? You think that just because you can avoid death, you should?
Because I know the only way to truly live forever is to be remembered. With your new attitude, you'll never do anything memorable ever again. And in 2 thousand years, if you're still alive but no one ever thinks of you, you might as well not be. 
I’m resistant to sleep magic, you know. Not even sleeping potions can keep me down for long. 
I'll be fine! I'm totally rested and healed, just like you wanted. My dad's sleep magic really is something. And your lullaby. 
What... happened here? 
What happened? Did Medb's army attack you? 
Why? I'm the one who was appointed to protect you and fight on everyone's behalf. You didn't have to put yourself in danger. 
No. Those monsters shouldn't have done this to you. Every kid is stupid but it shouldn't have to end in this. They knew they were playing dirty. They didn't care how unfair it was. 
Yeah, I'm here now. But I wasn't there when I needed to be. 
Enough about that! Please. I know I can't change the past. These regrets are just another part of my story now. But what I can do is avenge them. And I have a feeling I'll do a much better job of that than the enemy army planned for. 
Hey! Any Connacht bastards still around? I'm awake! 
You fool! 
Have you not heard the legends of Cu Chulainn, the monster demigod whose battle frenzy leaves a trail of destruction and carnage with no mercy for the likes of you?
Ferdiad? You're here. I didn't think- Wow-
What? So why are you- Wait, are you fighting for Queen Medb? Why?  
What are you talking about? What happened? We used to be so close. 
I didn't forget you! I think about you all the time. I just thought that fate would bring us back together. 
That’s what this is about? 
Please calm down, I didn’t know it mattered that much. 
Look, I’m sorry, but I had to leave. Why get stuck on that? We’re together again. We don’t have to be enemies. 
Woah! 
YEAH SURE, KILL ME, THAT’LL SHOW YOU CARE
IT DIDN’T HAVE TO COME TO THIS
YES
But what about-
That’s crazy! I won’t break my vows over your hurt feelings. I care about you so much but that doesn’t mean you can expect me to throw away everything else I’ve fought for! 
No!!! 
YOU’LL NEVER BELIEVE ME BUT I SWEAR I DIDN’T WANT IT TO COME TO THIS
I’m sorry.
Yeah. See you soon. 
Hey. Take his body back to your camp and give him a proper warrior’s burial. 
Oh. I guess so. 
Why are you surprised? You saw what happened. I killed my closest friend. I know this is war, I know I jumped in head first, but I never, ever wanted this. We talked about fighting side by side when we're older. Being heroes, being  glorious together. We had dreams of a future that fate was never going to grant us. We'll never get to do that. We won't ever get to grow up. And it's all my fault. He could have been so much more than this, if only I was more than... what I am. He should have had more time. Oh. Wait. Is this how you're going to feel when fate comes for me next? I'm so, so sorry, Emer. 
But how did it get to this in the first place? This isn’t how things are supposed to go. I can’t keep people I care about from getting killed. Friends become enemies. Enemies stay enemies. The people who rely on me literally have no other choice. And now the prophecy of my death is probably about to be fulfilled. 
What if we assumed that’s what it meant, but it doesn’t? This already isn’t what I wanted from my destiny. People I care about are becoming collateral damage to my selfish desire for fame. 
Can I? 
I’LL DO MY VERY BEST, I’LL DO WHATEVER IT’LL TAKE
THERE’S MORE TO ME THAN A MONSTER, I’VE GOT COURAGE, I’VE GOT CHARM
I WILL PROVE MYSELF FOR THE LAST TIME
Thank you for everything. Remember me. 
I’m here. 
Oh. But didn’t you say that seeing them all destroy me at once would be boring? 
I can’t say I blame you, I guess. 
We’ll see how easy I make it for you. Whether or not I deserve to die, this kingdom that you’re attacking is still in danger. Maybe I won’t defeat your entire remaining army. But maybe I’ll whittle down the numbers so much that the people who are still here after I’m gone can actually stand a chance. 
I have something else. Just let me... Wait, why can’t I- What? I can’t transform! 
Oh. But there is something still worth defending. I need to defend it. I need to... 
I’M RUNNING OUT OF TIME AND BLOOD AND BREATH
Wait, this isn’t glorious enough. 
I at least want to die fighting on my feet. 
I got what I wanted. I'm not afraid. Go on, give me the glorious death I've been promised. If you... get the chance... before...
Oh. Wow. They're fighting. I wish I could join them. 
So what's next for me? 
Anything special? 
Yeah. I'd like to see him too. 
Did dying help clear your head? 
No! 
Sure! 
You had the selfless courage. That's what matters. 
This is the way things are supposed to be. The two people most important to me, no tragic fighting, just a happy afterlife watching our legacy. 
SO THAT WAS MY LIFE
THEN I GUESS I'D SAY I'M SATISFIED
AND AN AFTERLIFE WITH YOU, MY LOVES
